President Trump of course signing a 100
billion dollar karna virus relief
package yesterday providing paid sick
leave
unemployment help and free testing to
Americans this as the Federal Reserve is
taking action by back stopping money
market mutual funds futures however
pointing to a decline at the open still
we are allow looking at a decline of 385
points this is well off of the lows of
the morning joining me right now on the
telephone is Treasury secretary Stephen
Venusian mr. secretary thanks very much
for joining us this morning we
appreciate all of your efforts and how
hard you're working in the face of some
real challenges let me ask you it seems
like you're putting everything including
the kitchen sink on the table and yet
the markets are still selling off
there's real disappointment in your
package sir Fulmer er first of all it's
good to be with you I would say you know
as I've always said I can't predict
where the markets are today or tomorrow
what we're really focused on is
providing liquidity to American business
and American workers I think as you know
this is an unprecedented situation where
for good reason the government is
instructed major parts of the economy to
closed down so that we can win this
fight against this virus this is not
going to go on forever we are going to
beat this and while we're doing that we
understand there are impacts on
hardworking Americans and the president
is determined that we are going to
support them so we've announced a
trillion dollar plan the first part of
this is 300 billion dollars that goes to
small businesses that money needs to be
used to hiring people keeping people on
the payroll and if they do there will be
loan forgiveness on on that afterwards
the the second component and that's a
really important Maria that's 40 percent
of the private work force and we want to
keep those people employed the second
component and you know I refer to this
is checks in the mail but that's the
it's really money direct deposited most
people we have all their information and
the plan is 500 billion dollars in two
tranches the first one would be $1,000
per person $500 per child so for a
family of four that's a $3,000 payment
as soon as Congress passes this we'd get
this out in three weeks and then
six weeks later if the president still
has a national emergency we'll deliver
another $3,000 so that's that's a lot of
money to hardworking Americans who are
at home no fault to theirs and the third
component is two hundred billion dollars
that we've been used for more facilities
with the Fed like we've been doing for
security ending our lives and four other
critical industries yeah I mean I mean
you just said a moments ago you can have
this out within three weeks once
Congress passed is it all morning long
Steve Forbes has been on this program
saying we need something now we need the
Treasury secretary to call the Federal
Reserve and open up the window for small
business now so any company that has
been solvent before this crisis can get
a loan now what what about making sure
you give the authority to the Federal
Reserve to do something along those
lines sir well mark I think the
treasurer in the Fed have been working
literally around the clock this week
we've put out together well they've put
out and we've supported with equity
there's three facilities last night the
press release came out at 11:30 that's
because we were working super late last
night to get this out these are very
important facilities these support the
money markets we were very worried that
hardworking americans we're going to
find that they couldn't get their money
out of money markets I can assure you
this the Fed and we understand their
authorities we in you know we're working
together on them and where we don't have
authorities we're going back to Congress
I've already asked that so you know we
we are focused on being able to provide
liquidity to companies that is our
objective and in certain cases I think
as you know certain powers were taken
away from the Fed after the financial
crisis and powers that we need we'll get
back let the press the president is
determined to go back and support the
American economy yes and yet even in
this crisis situation you have some even
Republicans pushing back voting no
yesterday on this because of debt
because of they don't think the package
is is is realistic for business so what
are you going to do in terms of politics
getting involved and the two
sides can't come together and vote on
this that's why Forbes is saying do this
now make sure the window is there at the
Fed well Maria let me just say the
things that the Fed and we can do we
will do I don't go into all the comments
on what Steve wants us to do some of
these things we can do some of these
things we can't but let me just say
there's a lot of bipartisan support
people are putting politics aside this
is about protecting the American economy
you had an overwhelming vote of
bipartisan vote and the Senate in the
house the Senate it is here working
they're working on this next package we
were on the phone round the clock with
them yesterday with Mitch McConnell and
his team I spoke to Chuck Schumer
several times I've spoken to the speaker
even though she's not here so I think
everybody realizes there's going to be
massive support for this economy on both
sides of the aisle secretary let me ask
you about about what Bill Ackman is
saying obviously the hedge fund manager
went on a tweet storm saying there
should be no defaults no no for
foreclosures he wants to see a 30 day
rent interest and tax holiday for all
are you considering a tax holiday and
what about his comments saying that the
shutdown is inevitable it is already
happening not in a controlled fashion
which is extending the economic pain
please send everyone home now hell is
coming says Bill Ackman well I I surely
don't agree with him on the last part I
think we're doing everything we can and
we're going to get out of this quickly
but let me just say yesterday I was very
pleased to see mark Calabria announced
that both Fannie and Freddie are going
to suspend foreclosures for 90 days
they're also going to issue forbearance
HUD did the same thing so that's a giant
part of the market my expectation is on
the banks will follow where they have
things so absolutely first of all we do
not want to be foreclosing on people
during this 90 day period and we want to
make sure we get liquidity to people so
there are parts of the economy that we
have shut down there's parts of the
economy that are booming what what about
those industries that really
need help in terms of what people are
calling a bailout here Larry
Larry Kudlow teasing the idea of the
government taking equity stakes as part
of that plan are you considering that
well Marie I would say you know this
isn't a bailout so let me just you know
say that for small businesses we're
providing liquidity if people have shut
down their their restaurants because
they've been told to that's not a
bailout we're doing things to encourage
them to keep their workers and as it
relates to the big companies like the
airlines we're looking at making secured
loans on market terms so you know we'll
see whether that includes equity or
doesn't include equity again we're not
going to force things on people but
people who need liquidity we're going to
make sure that the taxpayers are
compensated fairly but I can assure you
the Fed we the president are all a
hundred percent focused on providing
liquidity to this economy so you know
we've told the House and the Senate we
need to get legislation done quickly
this needs to be done by the beginning
of next week and I think once you see
more and more money coming into this
economy Americans are gonna feel a lot
better and they're gonna understand that
this is a virus we're going to get
through this this is not the financial
crisis that will go on for years we are
going to destroy this virus and our
economy will come rolling back better
than ever what are the measures in order
to release money to various industries
because yes I understand the the airline
industry is seeing zero business I
understand the cruise ships and and even
the banks I get it but but Boeing wants
money I mean specific companies may want
money what are the measures that you're
using to as an allowance to release
money to various industries if it's not
a bailout well Maria we it's not a
bailout because we have good companies
that have shut down businesses for 30
days or 60 days or 90 days that are
going to open those businesses so
there's going to be a lot of demand
this isn't about bailing out business
this isn't about
thanks but made that loan these are
about very very good companies that have
been instructed to shut down so they
need liquidity that's what they need and
in most cases my expectation is they'll
be able to pay back those loans in the
cases small businesses if they can't
afford to pay back those loans will
forgive them I don't consider that to be
a bailout I consider that to be an
incentive to keep workers hired yeah you
know it seems like most people do not
want to talk politics in any way shape
or form we have all hands on deck and I
applaud you and the administration to
bringing business in to make sure to
come up with solutions but Robert
Zoellick former head of the World Bank
has a op-ed out this morning and here's
what he writes secretary Trump's tariffs
leave the u.s. short on vital medical
supplies he's blaming the president's
tariff plan and program for the fact
that we don't have the medical supplies
that we need because all of this stuff
is made in China well that's absolutely
just not the case okay
ambassador life has ER has waived
tariffs on any critical items we've
continued to do that on critical items
so that's just not the case and I would
say that we're doing everything to make
sure the supply chains stay open
I want to compliment the medical
professionals while working around the
clock the testing working with both
private companies now as well as the
government I think the American public
is going to have a lot more confidence
as they seek quick testing is rolled out
so we are doing an entire
government-wide resources and I can
assure you that articles not correct
about tariffs yes
I know I know you are what about the 50
and 25 year bonds to to finance the
relief bill and and plans for more
stimulus is this still on the table
secretary well Maria you know we had
given a lot of thought to 50 or 100 year
bonds and we surveyed the market we went
to investors we went to foreigners we
went to pension fund and there was some
demand for it
given our desire to be regular and
predictable we decided that it was we
could raise a lot more money at 20 year
and that would extend our duration and I
can assure you we're going to take
advantage of lower interest rate the
good news is we can refinance a lot of
our debt at low levels and we have no
problem
issuing more debt here so we are
determined to support this economy and
the most important issue is we now get
this trillion dollar package passed so
we get money into the economy and I
think you'll see when hardworking
Americans in business have access to
credit you're going to see a
stabilization in this economy
look secretary I know that we are in
sort of a very sensitive and fragile
moment in time particularly going into
these next couple of weeks where we're
gonna see the number of cases spike
should we be ignoring economic data at
this point but we just got the initial
jobless claims number out 281,000
jobless applications you warned
lawmakers that we could see unemployment
spiking to 20% if action is not taken do
you stand by that number still I want to
clarify so I was not predicting that
what I said is that for 40% of our
workforce is in small businesses and I
said if half of them were left off let
that go mathematically we'd be at 20%
unemployment so again what I've said to
the lawmakers and they understand this
is we want to keep those people employed
cuz that is what is important to do but
I agree with you the statistics in the
short run of economics are obviously not
relevant this is an unprecedented
situation where the government the
government's direction we've shut down
parts of the economy and now is the time
that we provide government support
that's the role of the government so so
you know Bank of America is talking
about three and a half million jobs lost
in the second quarter there's a debate
on how significant a contraction it will
be in the second quarter but we're
talking about 8 percent contraction 14
percent contraction if you listen to JP
Morgan is it fair to say from what we
know today that's really the second
quarter that's going to be the sharp
contraction or are you expecting this
second and third quarter to be
bulk of it well what's your charming on
this is the bottom line Secretary III I
think you're going to see the second
quarter down I think people are
speculating nobody has a good view of
what it exactly is I think you're going
to see the third quarter pickup and I
think you're going to see a gigantic
fourth quarter
a gigantic fourth quarter why because
you think much of the the worry over
coronavirus will be behind we'll have
more clarity from the drug companies why
would the fourth quarter see a gigantic
rebound because I have a lot of
confidence in the medical professionals
we have the best medical system in the
world there's a lot of viral treatments
that are that are in trials now that are
proving very effective I think there's
more that are being developed I think
there'll be work on vaccines so I think
this fact I think we're good we're gonna
kill this virus and we're doing all the
right things now to make sure that it
doesn't spread and I think you're gonna
see a lot of pent up demand so I think
you're gonna see when we get through the
next few months in American seed what's
happening and we've killed this virus
people are going to be comfortable going
back to work we're going to be opening
back businesses and people are going to
continue what they do you know they're
going to live they're going to shop
they're going to eat out they're going
to enjoy restaurants and travel and
entertainment and we will go back to a
normal world yeah but there are some
expectations that for example in the
restaurant business 1/3 of restaurants
will go away you know that there are
many companies that may not make it out
of this secretary what about the oil
patch with oil prices where they are how
significant are you expecting the
bankruptcies to be in the oil patch well
Marie let me just go back to the
restaurant if Congress passes our plan
the majority of these restaurants are
small businesses with 500 people or less
and in our plan there is money for those
owners to keep those people employed so
we see no reason why those restaurants
should be permanently closed those
restaurants should be closed for a short
period of time the workers should be
paid that's that's only fair not their
fault
and those restaurants will be ready to
open
now as it relates to the oil market I
mean allow me let me just say this could
not have occurred at a worse time that
this has nothing to do with the
coronavirus whatsoever so there's
there's no question that there's both
supply problem as well as the demand
problem you know I'm going to tell the
president that my recommendation is that
he goes to Congress and asked for a lot
more money to fill the strategic reserve
at at $22 for WTI crude we should be
filling up the reserve for the next ten
years so you know we are energy
dependent obviously at these prices
we're gonna have issues producing energy
so let's go out and buy ten or twenty
billion dollars of oil fill up the
reserves again the oil market has
nothing to do with the Corrado virus
other than there's just a lot less
demand at this point but you're right
unprocessed yeah yeah no surprise no
surprise Russia would pile on just in
the middle of a crisis for the United
States and say I'm not going to cut
production secretary munition it's a
pleasure to have you this morning thanks
very much for the clarity we appreciate
it thanks Maria